docs: Better clarify the `auto_https` options and Caddyfile config (#74)
caddyserver/website: src/docs/markdown/automatic-https.md

- Caddy serves IP addresses and local/internal hostnames over HTTPS with locally-trusted certificates. Examples: `localhost`, `127.0.0.1`.
- Caddy serves public DNS names over HTTPS with certificates from [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org). Examples: `example.com`, `sub.example.com`, `*.example.com`.

> Caddy keeps all certificates renewed, and redirects HTTP (default port 80) to HTTPS (default port 443) automatically (provided [Activation](/docs/automatic-https#activation) is successful).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Caddy keeps all certificates renewed, and redirects HTTP (default port 80) to HTTPS (default port 443) automatically, provided that [activation](/docs/automatic-https#activation) is successful.
```

> Caddy keeps all certificates renewed, and redirects HTTP (default port 80) to HTTPS (default port 443) automatically, provided that [activation](/docs/automatic-https#activation) is successful.

Reviewer 2: This is basically the same thing as "Automatic HTTPS works as long as it does not fail," which seems obvious/redundant: of course if something fails, it will not succeed. I think we actually want to convey, "Auto HTTPS has certain criteria for activation."

How about a different way of introducing the activation criteria...

```suggestion
Provided that [auto-HTTPS activates](/docs/automatic-https#activation), Caddy keeps all certificates renewed, and redirects HTTP (default port 80) to HTTPS (default port 443) automatically.
```

Author: > This is basically the same thing as "Automatic HTTPS works as long as it does not fail," which seems obvious/redundant

Mostly the intent was to point the user to the Activation section for a list of criteria for when `auto_https` would work or fail. The original statement just implies it all works well with no clarification of why it might fail.

A site address of `localhost` by default implicitly connects over HTTPS with HTTP->HTTPS redirect, `off` connects to ~HTTP with no HTTPS~(**EDIT:** I'm mistaken, still implicitly `443` but refuses to serve) or redirect, while `disable_redirects` results in HTTP not being reachable(not my original expectation), or `localhost:80` being reachable but no HTTPS anymore despite `auto_https disable_redirects` behaviour without the explicit port, and that turns out to be due to another non-obvious rule/condition at play.

So while it seems redundant, it's aimed at directing the user to the right docs when troubleshooting, they shouldn't need to go through the entire docs page looking for some hopeful explanation or worse trying to find such information elsewhere in the docs, especially if this feature spans multiple doc pages about it (which might not be known of at the time either).

---

Slight change of phrasing, as "Activation" personally didn't *click* as well when I first saw it. "rules" might also be appropriate alternative to "conditions":

```suggestion
When the [conditions for automatic HTTPS](/docs/automatic-https#activation) are valid, Caddy keeps all certificates renewed, and redirects HTTP (default port 80) to HTTPS (default port 443) automatically.
```

Reviewer 2: "Conditions are valid" is weird/awkward. I still prefer my suggestion above, as "activation" is probably the best word for it.

Author: I feel the same way about "activation" personally :)

I'll go with your suggestion, I understand the doc better now that it doesn't bother me and isn't something worth debating further.

You can [customize or disable automatic HTTPS](/docs/json/apps/http/servers/automatic_https/) if necessary.

> <aside class="tip">Disabling redirects keeps the HTTPS port enabled as the default port implicitly assigned to an address. The HTTP port was only binded for redirects, to support connecting to both ports, you must [explicitly listen on both for an address](/docs/automatic-https#examples).</aside>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<aside class="tip">Disabling redirects keeps the HTTPS port enabled as the default port implicitly assigned to an address. The HTTP port is only bound for redirects and for the ACME HTTP challenge. If you need to serve over HTTP, you must explicitly configure Caddy to do it. [See the examples](/docs/automatic-https#examples).</aside>
```

> <aside class="tip">Disabling redirects keeps the HTTPS port enabled as the default port implicitly assigned to an address. The HTTP port is only bound for redirects and for the ACME HTTP challenge. If you need to serve over HTTP, you must explicitly configure Caddy to do it. [See the examples](/docs/automatic-https#examples).</aside>

Reviewer 2: This is confusing because this section is not about disabling auto-HTTPS (that is below). Even I had to read this several times before it started to make sense, and even now I'm not sure what "need to serve over HTTP" means. Serving redirects? Serving content? Anyway, I think this should be moved or removed.

Author: There is mention of disabling it in that section, it's a section I viewed early on IIRC as it was a rather lengthy document and not all the information seemed important to understand what to do (or what I was doing wrong). It's been isolated as a tip to separate the context a little for the reason you bring up, that was meant to be less confusing actually..

It's about `disable_redirects` (which both Caddyfile and JSON support for config), so not about serving redirects, I could change to "serve content" unless there is a better way to phrase it(expose HTTP port, be reachable over the HTTP port, support connections over HTTP, etc).

I didn't have the bit about ACME HTTP challenge there, that was added as a suggestion to clarify that the HTTP port was implicitly redirecting to HTTPS in addition to being used for that challenge.

Examples section was linked to for more information on how to configure Caddy properly when using `disable_redirects`, so that you could access both HTTP and HTTPS, as this was not very straightforward.. I was originally under the belief that HTTP was the default implicit port, and that the `auto_https` feature was implicitly adding HTTPS support/connections, such that `disable_redirects` would implicitly still handle both ports, but do as the value states and just disable HTTP->HTTPS redirects.. while `off` would do that and not implicitly add HTTPS(**EDIT:** Mistaken, HTTP isn't the implicit port for `off` and HTTPS is still used implicitly, just without TLS thus it fails).

Reviewer 2: Let's remove this paragraph, it's just too confusing and out of place here.

Caddy can obtain and manage wildcard certificates when it is configured to serve a site with a qualifying wildcard name. A site name qualifies for a wildcard if only its left-most domain label is a wildcard. For example, `*.example.com` qualifies, but these do not: `sub.*.example.com`, `foo*.example.com`, `*bar.example.com`, and `*.*.example.com`.

To get a wildcard from Let's Encrypt, you simply need to enable the [DNS challenge](#dns-challenge) and use a wildcard domain in your config. We recommend using wildcards only when you have so many subdomains that you would encounter CA rate limits trying to obtain certificates for them all.

## Examples

> Caddy implicitly uses the HTTPS port (default 443) for your [server addresses](/docs/conventions#network-addresses) that don't assign an explicit port (which would disable automatic HTTPS). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Caddy implicitly uses the HTTPS port (default 443) for your [server addresses](/docs/conventions#network-addresses) that don't specify a port explicitly (which would disable automatic HTTPS). 
```

> The global setting `auto_https` has two values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Automatic HTTPS can be configured via the Caddyfile with the [`auto_https` global option](/docs/caddyfile/options), or via [per-server JSON configuration](/docs/json/apps/http/servers/automatic_https/). The Caddyfile option can be set to either of the following:
```

> - `disable_redirects` adds an implicit HTTP port redirect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `disable_redirects` which disables the implicit HTTP->HTTPS redirect.
```

> - `off` disables automatic HTTPS, default implicit port changes to HTTP for all server addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `off` which disables automatic HTTPS altogether, including the HTTP->HTTPS redirect and automatic enabling of TLS for sites that meet the requirements.
```

Author: Not worth mentioning here the implicit default port being switched from HTTPS to HTTP? I guess that's still covered in the table directly below.

Reviewer: Technically it doesn't do that.

```
{
        auto_https off
}

localhost

respond "Hello World"
```

Adapts to:

```json
{
  "apps": {
    "http": {
      "servers": {
        "srv0": {
          "listen": [
            ":443"
          ],

          "routes": [
            {
              "match": [
                {
                  "host": [
                    "localhost"
                  ]
                }
              ],
              "handle": [
                {
                  "handler": "subroute",
                  "routes": [
                    {
                      "handle": [
                        {
                          "body": "Hello World",
                          "handler": "static_response"
                        }
                      ]
                    }
                  ]
                }
              ],
              "terminal": true
            }
          ],
          "tls_connection_policies": [
            {}
          ],
          "automatic_https": {
            "disable": true
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

It still only listens to `:443` but TLS will not be automatically managed (so connections will fail). So turning off `auto_https` in that situation only really makes sense if you also manually configure TLS (with your own cert/key for example).

Author: @francislavoie ah ok... thanks for clarifying that. I could have sworn I had tested it previously and had HTTP work implicitly, it seems I'm mistaken. Tried looking for mentions about this in the docs, but again can't seem to find that information I thought I had read of the default implicit port changing.

So the default port is always implicitly `443`? (Unless some other explicit configuration like a protocol scheme is provided)

I should probably clarify that in the docs if its not already.

| auto_https        | HTTP        | HTTPS       |
|-------------------|-------------|-------------|
| *default*         | redirects   | connects    |
| disable_redirects | unreachable | connects    |
| off               | connects    | unreachable |

`unreachable` is the default without additional configuration when using the related `auto_https` setting.
`connects` is the implicitly assigned port.

### Disabling automatic HTTPS

> For local development environments, you can prevent serving via HTTPS by providing an explicit port assignment(disable per server address) or using the global `auto_https off` setting which will change Caddy's implicit port to be the HTTP port (default 80) globally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For local development environments, you can prevent serving via HTTPS by either specifying `http://` or providing a non-HTTPS port to disable per site, or by adding `auto_https off` to the Caddyfile global options which will change Caddy's implicit port to be the HTTP port (default 80).
```

```caddy
{

>   auto_https off

Reviewer: In general we use tabs for Caddyfile config

```suggestion
	auto_https off
```

}

> # Have caddy implicitly use the HTTP port

Reviewer: I think the comments should be hoisted out of the code blocks with a quick line right above them that describe what follows. Reads better to have the purpose of the example just before it. Also reads better to have a line of text between each example code block.

localhost {
  root * /usr/share/caddy

>   file_server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	root * /usr/share/caddy

	file_server
```

}
```

```caddy
# Alternatively, provide an explicit port
localhost:9000 {
  root * /usr/share/caddy

>   file_server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	root * /usr/share/caddy

	file_server
```

}
```

### HTTP and HTTPS without redirect

> If you want to serve content through both HTTP and HTTPS ports without HTTP redirects, your server address cannot rely on a single implicit port and you must explicitly declare the intent to listen from both ports.
> 
> To do so, you can [map several addresses to a site block as a list](/docs/caddyfile/concepts#addresses) separated with `,`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you wish to serve content through both HTTP and HTTPS, without HTTP->HTTPS redirects, your site label cannot must explicitly declare the intent to listen on both ports. To do so, [specify multiple site labels](/docs/caddyfile/concepts#addresses), separated by a comma or whitespace.
```

Author: > site label 

I did not see this terminology used in the docs yet? I've seen "Network Addresses", "Addresses", and their corresponding Block "site block". I do prefer site label though, in a few places I've prepended "server" when mentioning addresses for added clarity. Since it's not always for websites(could be for an API), is "service address" better?

[Conventions - Network Addresses](https://caddyserver.com/docs/conventions#network-addresses) tip section defines "Network Addresses" pretty well, additionally the [concepts section](https://caddyserver.com/docs/caddyfile/concepts#addresses) visual breakdown has a legend calling it a "site address", and in the "Addresses" section wildcard matching refers to a label as part of a hostname.

[URI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Identifier) also seems to be an apt description I think?

> cannot must

I think the "cannot" was meant to be removed?

Author: I have pushed changes removing the "cannot", and renamed "site label" and "server addresses" to "site address/es".

Reviewer: There's an unpublished `spec.md` document that you can find in here that talks a lot about labels. That was the terminology used in Caddy v1 and I may have missed the decision where @mholt switched the terminology... but I'm not sure.

As you said, the wildcard bit specifically talks about one segment of the address being a label, which follows from the `{labels.*}` placeholders that exist. Maybe label isn't the best word here.

👍 for the "cannot" typo

```caddy
{

>   auto_https disable_redirects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	auto_https disable_redirects
```

}

# Uses the HTTP and HTTPS by protocol

> # These are configurable as global settings

Reviewer: Same comment applies for these examples, move these comments out of the code blocks.

http://localhost, https://localhost {

>   root * /usr/share/caddy
> 
>   file_server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	root * /usr/share/caddy

	file_server
```

}
```

```caddy
{

>   auto_https disable_redirects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	auto_https disable_redirects
```

}

# Alternatively provide explicit ports
localhost:80, localhost:443 {

>   root * /usr/share/caddy
> 
>   file_server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	root * /usr/share/caddy

	file_server
```

Caddy can obtain and manage wildcard certificates when it is configured to serve a site with a qualifying wildcard name. A site name qualifies for a wildcard if only its left-most domain label is a wildcard. For example, `*.example.com` qualifies, but these do not: `sub.*.example.com`, `foo*.example.com`, `*bar.example.com`, and `*.*.example.com`.

To get a wildcard from Let's Encrypt, you simply need to enable the [DNS challenge](#dns-challenge) and use a wildcard domain in your config. We recommend using wildcards only when you have so many subdomains that you would encounter CA rate limits trying to obtain certificates for them all.

> ## Examples

Reviewer 2: I think this section is a good idea, but it's only Caddyfile examples. The Caddyfile is just a config adapter. This section should ideally be moved to an area of the docs specifically about the Caddyfile.

Author: As long as it's referenced from this doc for discovery, sure.

Most of the docs snippets I've seen are for Caddyfile configs, and as a new user I've found that most useful. I haven't tried the JSON configs yet, I'm not sure how much that differs but I have noticed it doesn't seem to be 1:1 equivalent, such as the JSON docs for settings of auto HTTPS feature has fields like `skip`.

Personally I'd like the tabbed example snippets like Traefik has, which lets you view the config in various supported formats. I was interested in the TOML adapter, but all I found was a link to a github repo with no documentation on how to use it, so I just stuck with Caddyfile for now.

If I move these, do you have any suggestions for how you want that handled? Is it going to become a large examples page for Caddyfile with many sections for different features over time, as a sort of reference? Or sub-pages for each feature?

Reviewer 2: I think that examples and other config tutorials that aren't central to the core of Caddy are a perfect fit for our wiki: https://caddy.community/c/wiki/13 -- that'd probably be the best place for this content for now. We can always bring stuff into the official docs later, but taking things out is difficult (and must reach a high standard of quality and structure, organization, and placement).

Author: So remove this whole section and add it to the wiki, or should there also be a link to these wiki examples left somewhere in the doc?

Do I need to iterate the examples on the wiki, like the PR review here, or leave it for others to contribute improvements?

Reviewer 2: > So remove this whole section and add it to the wiki

I think so. The wiki  is much easier for the community to help refine as well.

> should there also be a link to these wiki examples left somewhere in the doc?

You may absolutely link to wiki posts from the documentation, sure. :)

> Do I need to iterate the examples on the wiki, like the PR review here, or leave it for others to contribute improvements?

Why not both? 🤷‍♂️

Author: > Why not both?

I'm just not familiar with your wiki and process for that yet. I'm less likely to notice any notifications from other platforms. I'll move the examples to the wiki, and check on it depending how busy I am, otherwise I assume it's less stringent than a PR and the community is able to directly improve it as they see fit.

> Caddy implicitly uses the HTTPS port (default 443) for your [site addresses](/docs/conventions#network-addresses) that don't specify a port explicitly (which would disable automatic HTTPS). 

Reviewer 2: This isn't accurate. Any port other than 80 will still use HTTPS by default.

Author: This is why the docs need improving :+1: 

Although that does make the rule a little confusing. If only an explicit port 80 opts out of HTTPS for a site block, is that really the right way to go about it? (probably too late to change now since v2 is out)

If I add a different port for a service and want to opt-out of HTTPS being implicitly added, how do I do that? Eg SMTP implicit(465) and explicit(587) TLS ports where HTTPS isn't desired?

Author: Just tried a config without touching `auto_https`, used `localhost:8000` and connected to it via `curl`, but it responded with:

> Client sent an HTTP request to an HTTPS server.

So HTTPS (or just TLS?) by default. How would I opt out of that for a site block address while other site blocks leverage auto HTTPS? 

This is important if Caddy is handling the ports for IMAP service that for whatever reason makes plaintext port available to connect to (which can leverage StartTLS). A better example might be the SMTP port 25, which is required to be reachable for incoming mail traffic and is plaintext but can leverage StartTLS to negotiate an explicit TLS connection, something Caddy probably doesn't support and would need to just proxy/passthrough the connection to the SMTP service.

Reviewer 2: > If only an explicit port 80 opts out of HTTPS for a site block,

That's not quite what I said; any of the other conditions listed on this page will _also_ deactivate auto HTTPS (for example, no hostname in the config, i.e. a site address of `:1234`).

It's fairly nuanced and we need to be careful and rigorous about the language we use, especially in technical documentation.

> Eg SMTP implicit(465) and explicit(587) TLS ports where HTTPS isn't desired?

Caddy's HTTP server is an HTTP server, it doesn't serve SMTP; so ports for other services are irrelevant. Remember that the HTTP server is only one app module for Caddy, it can definitely have a different module for an SMTP server, with its own semantics.

> So HTTPS (or just TLS?) by default. How would I opt out of that for a site block address while other site blocks leverage auto HTTPS?

Simply break any of the conditions that activate auto-HTTPS? The existing Activation section already answers your question.

> This is important if Caddy is handling the ports for IMAP service

How (and why) are you doing that with an HTTP server?

All the talk about non-HTTP for the "automatic HTTPS" docs really makes no sense, it's totally irrelevant here. Why are we talking about mail protocols on documentation for an HTTP server?

Author: > It's fairly nuanced and we need to be careful and rigorous about the language we use, especially in technical documentation.

Agreed. I think that's actually where I got confused about the implicit port changing, because when I first raised an issue about it my global options had `local_certs` set, which I later realized was not required as they're created automatically with `localhost` as the site address.

My comment about explicit port 80 was regarding ports causing an opt-out, but as you've pointed out, that's not correct either.. personally not fond of confusing that can get to initially grok, but I guess for most users it's not a problem they'd need to think about often.

> Caddy's HTTP server is an HTTP server, it doesn't serve SMTP; so ports for other services are irrelevant.
> How (and why) are you doing that with an HTTP server?
> Why are we talking about mail protocols on documentation for an HTTP server?

I'd have services like Postfix and Dovecot handling SMTP/IMAP, they expose the ports. 

Sorry, this was again me not thinking straight. As you rightly point out, we're configuring an HTTP server/service, I have seen a `reverse_proxy` directive but not given it a try yet. I was yet again thinking of alternatives to Caddy that I've used prior where I define a port upfront(which points to the service), and HTTPS especially with the port configurability had me thinking of it as generic automatic TLS with LetsEncrypt support.

I've seen a few users trying to use Caddy with their SMTP services, where Caddy acts as a reverse proxy for those ports, but manages the TLS cert renewal for a hostname (eg mail.example.com). Similar is done with Traefik, while NGINX can actually support handling StartTLS IIRC.

> All the talk about non-HTTP for the "automatic HTTPS" docs really makes no sense, it's totally irrelevant here.

Sorry, as mentioned, I was thinking of it as automatic TLS, and that the only thing that made it HTTPS was the default port and in the context of running an HTTP service.

> Simply break any of the conditions that activate auto-HTTPS? The existing Activation section already answers your question.

It wouldn't break those conditions for `mail.example.com:143`, but as you clarified, that's because this is only related to an HTTP/S service.

> Remember that the HTTP server is only one app module for Caddy, it can definitely have a different module for an SMTP server, with its own semantics.

Understood, I'll need to get more familiar with the [modules](https://caddyserver.com/docs/modules/), I guess anything not in an http namespace might not be supported by Caddyfile and require the JSON approach to configuration(or equivalent via config adapters).

Automatic HTTPS can be configured via the Caddyfile with the [`auto_https` global option](/docs/caddyfile/options), or via [per-server JSON configuration](/docs/json/apps/http/servers/automatic_https/). The Caddyfile option can be set to either of the following:

> - `disable_redirects` which disables the implicit HTTP->HTTPS redirect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

- `disable_redirects` which disables the implicit HTTP->HTTPS redirect.
```

- `off` which disables automatic HTTPS altogether, including the HTTP->HTTPS redirect and automatic enabling of TLS for sites that meet the requirements.

> | auto_https        | HTTP        | HTTPS       |
> |-------------------|-------------|-------------|
> | *default*         | redirects   | connects    |
> | disable_redirects | unreachable | connects    |
> | off               | connects    | unreachable |

Reviewer 2: What conditions and configuration does this table assume? For example, here's a (contrived) Caddyfile where the table is not accurate:

```
{
    auto_https off
}

https://example.com

tls cert.pem key.pem
```

This will connect on port 443 but not 80. (Granted, this Caddyfile uses the `auto_https` option unnecessarily since providing my own cert and key disables it for that site anyway.)

Also a slight formatting suggestion, since `auto_https` refers to a config parameter:

```suggestion
| `auto_https`      | HTTP        | HTTPS       |
|-------------------|-------------|-------------|
| *default*         | redirects   | connects    |
| disable_redirects | unreachable | connects    |
| off               | connects    | unreachable |
```

Author: The `unreachable` and `connects` are defined beneath the table. They clarify that default without additional explicit configuration (such as a protocol scheme or port on a site address) `connects` is the ~implicit port/protocol used, and `unreachable` is just that, not implicitly reachable~(**EDIT:** Misunderstood this, was sure I had tested or seen in the docs of the default implicit port changing between HTTP/HTTPS, but I'm mistaken). `redirects` wasn't explained as I think that's been covered clearly that it is just redirecting HTTP connections to HTTPS to be handled.

> For example, here's a (contrived) Caddyfile where the table is not accurate

You didn't rely on the site address being implicitly configured ~for HTTP~(**EDIT: Caddy doesn't do that)/HTTPS, so it's not valid. Granted I've only thought of it regarding ports.

There's an example for `disable_redirects` that uses the protocol schemes, but I personally had no idea how HTTPS is configured without the auto feature or what `auto_https` does "under the hood" equivalent to manual configuration. Traefik has a nice way with entrypoints and routers, the docs for Caddy probably touch on this somewhere, I just haven't gone through them in a linear fashion. 

Perhaps it's worth mentioning early on in the doc (via a link to where ever non-auto equivalents are explained) and maybe once more at the start of the examples section?

Does using an explicit port 443 also enable HTTPS(provided it matches the configured HTTPS port)? What does a user need to do to enable TLS / HTTPS on a non-standard port that's also not the standard HTTPS configured port(if changed from the default 443)? (**EDIT:** HTTPS/443 is always the default implicit port, even with `auto_https off` just that drops TLS which raises an error response, using any port other than 80 is treated as HTTPS, so the question changes to opting out of TLS for non-standard ports.)

> Also a slight formatting suggestion, since auto_https refers to a config parameter

The values in that column are also relevant to use inline code blocks then? (except for *default*, not sure if that's presented as a non-value, does it have any valid value like `on`?)

Reviewer 2: > The unreachable and connects are defined beneath the table. 

What I'm saying is that they don't define what they _mean_. And they don't make sense.

> Perhaps it's worth mentioning early on in the doc (via a link to where ever non-auto equivalents are explained) and maybe once more at the start of the examples section?

Mentioning what, exactly?

> Does using an explicit port 443 also enable HTTPS(provided it matches the configured HTTPS port)?

Like anything else, if it doesn't break any of the requirements here, then yes: https://caddyserver.com/docs/automatic-https#activation (so, yes)

> EDIT: HTTPS/443 is always the default implicit port

Only if auto-HTTPS activates! Which is most of the time. That's the point of Caddy's HTTP server: it's HTTPS by default.

> The values in that column are also relevant to use inline code blocks then?

This was just a personal preference, I don't care strongly either way.

> `unreachable` is the default without additional configuration when using the related `auto_https` setting.

Reviewer 2: What does this mean though? Shouldn't this describe how the socket is not opened implicitly?

Also I'm not sure "unreachable" is the right word. Whether a socket is reachable is external and unrelated to the web server: I think you want "does not connect" or something like that. Port 443 (or whatever) might very well be reachable, but not able to connect.

Author: ~Should the table be revised to indicate instead which protocol scheme/port is implicitly used?~ In which case should `redirects` be changed/clarified or left as is?

**EDIT:** Misunderstood how the implicit handling works. There is no implicit HTTP other than the default redirect to HTTPS. This table is not useful then..

Reviewer 2: > EDIT: Misunderstood how the implicit handling works. There is no implicit HTTP other than the default redirect to HTTPS. This table is not useful then..

I think I agree on this point. The only nuance to this is that Caddy _will_ try to bind to the HTTP port to solve the ACME HTTP challenge, but this doesn't _necessarily_ happen at the same time as starting the server along with the HTTPS ports etc. Caddy still needs the HTTP port if it is to solve the HTTP challenge successfully, so it is used for more than just redirects (unless the HTTP challenge is disabled.)

But that is explained in the docs already.

We can remove the table then.

> `connects` is the implicitly assigned port.

Reviewer 2: This is also confusing. "Connects" is not a port. This should describe what connects means.

Author: This was my fault for only thinking of site addresses regarding ports(rather than Network Addresses), would it be more accurate to state that Caddy is ~implicitly adding the protocol scheme~(**EDIT:** it's always implicitly https/443 afaik? even with `auto_https off`), which infers the port from `http_port` and `https_port` or their defaults?

The protocol scheme threw me off a bit, as while the http/https ports can be configured for Caddy to use different ports, the protocol schemes felt more explicit about what ports they'd refer to, but I guess they too match `http_port`/`https_port` and aren't related to the user connecting over `http/https` via their browser per se?

~I can drop these with changing the table to focus more on which protocol/port is used implicitly instead.~

Reviewer 2: Correct, if you specify a scheme, it uses the port configured for that scheme. By default this is, of course, 80 and 443. But in some circumstances you need to forward ports from the outside (I have to do this all the time), so you can change the ports for internal use.

### Disabling automatic HTTPS

> For local development environments, you can prevent serving via HTTPS by either specifying `http://` or providing a non-HTTPS port to disable per site, or by adding `auto_https off` to the Caddyfile global options which will change Caddy's implicit port to be the HTTP port (default 80).

Reviewer 2: This works in _any_ environment, not just local development.

Reviewer 2: I would like to see this section refer to the activation criteria and then show 1:1 how _not_ meeting those criteria disables auto HTTPS.

Author: > This works in any environment, not just local development.

Yes, I could probably have re-worded that better. I had seen the quick-starts guide earlier that was more involved in config/requirements IIRC, and explicitly stated that it wasn't for local environment(eg `localhost` site address). I may have made this mistake here due to train of thought with the localhost examples used, and originally having `local_certs` global option set which I apparently didn't need to do for localhost site address and later removed before committing.

> I would like to see this section refer to the activation criteria and then show 1:1 how not meeting those criteria disables auto HTTPS.

Sure I can do that :+1:

Have caddy implicitly use the HTTP port:

```caddy
{
	auto_https off
}

localhost {
	root * /usr/share/caddy

	file_server
}
```

Alternatively, provide an explicit port:

```caddy
localhost:9000 {
	root * /usr/share/caddy

	file_server
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: As mentioned above, this is wrong; specifying a port does not disable automatic HTTPS. Read the criteria closely, and make sure to try every config you add to the docs to prove it works.

### HTTP and HTTPS without redirect

If you wish to serve content through both HTTP and HTTPS, without HTTP->HTTPS redirects, your site address must explicitly declare the intent to listen on both ports. To do so, [specify multiple site labels](/docs/caddyfile/concepts#addresses), separated by a comma or whitespace.

> HTTP and HTTPS by protocol, default ports can be configured via the Caddyfile [`http_port` and `https_port` global options](/docs/caddyfile/options):

Reviewer 2: This sentence isn't one... try this instead:

```suggestion
One way to do this is by specifying the protocol scheme, which infers the standard ports (the respective ports can be customized using [`http_port` and `https_port` global options](/docs/caddyfile/options)):
```
